i get messages i get people who write in
to me after watching my youtube videos
one that i received last week in
response to my video on drugs
at the end of his message he said i
don't even know if you'll read this
if you do maybe you can make a video
about it and that's precisely what i'm
doing in this youtube video he
thought that it wasn't so black and
white this issue of staying sober
and he was writing to me from the
experience of someone who's mostly been
sober
this man who wrote into me is now
atheist but he grew up in a household
that was strictly religious
so he didn't have any exposure to drugs
and alcohol in his teenage years
and from 18 to 25 he only had a little
bit of exposure to drugs and alcohol but
for the most part he's avoided this
mainstream culture of drinking and doing
drugs in canada
he says that for him it's not so obvious
that it's the right thing to do to just
not drink alcohol to just not do drugs
to stay
separate from this kind of culture that
if you don't do this
then you'll miss out on opportunities so
i will read his quote here
with this complete sober attitude i
missed out on a lot of great moments in
life
people i could have met women i could
have been with connections i could have
made and leveraged into better
employment and other opportunities
he goes on to say even in your case at
least you had some adventurous
experiences as an alcoholic in your
younger days
um i'm not offended i just wanted to
clarify
i was never an alcoholic and i thought i
made that clear in my last video where i
was saying that alcohol made me sick
when i started college i was
5'4 and about 110 pounds so
it was really for me like one or two
drinks could make me
feel really sick for example on my 18th
birthday my freshman year
somebody gave me a four loko drink this
was in 2010 when for loco was
a new product i'm not totally sure but i
think it had caffeine
and alcohol in it we were actually in
one of the guys dorms downstairs
and i didn't even finish the can and i
started feeling sick
i went up to my dorm quietly i didn't
tell anybody
and then maybe half hour or an hour
later one of my roommates came up and
checked on me and to see if i was okay i
was slumped over on the bathroom floor
like
sick i had bad experiences when i was
first drinking
that made me not want to drink so
most of my time in college i smoked
marijuana because
that didn't make me throw up that didn't
make me feel sick i was never an
alcoholic
and in fact i i think i was kind of
alienated from some of these
experiences with drinking alcohol in my
college years because
i just wasn't able to drink very much
without getting sick
so yeah i don't know if i wasn't clear
on that you know i know what he's saying
here like a lot of great moments in life
at least you have adventurous
experiences people think of it that way
and people remember these parties
in a fond way my oldest brother's
wedding everybody was drinking alcohol
at my oldest brother's wedding
all my family members and i drank
alcohol that night
and i got sick i didn't tell anybody i
just went back to
the cabin that we were staying in threw
up and felt a little
bit better after drinking some water and
going to bed but
no um i don't remember that positively i
don't know if i just have high standards
but
most of the times that i remember fondly
with my connections with people
are sober because we both remember
what's
said there's a certain level of respect
that you're giving the other person
when you're both sober and talking on
the level with each other
whereas i know some people will think
some of the happiest times in their life
happened when they were drinking
happened when they were doing drugs
but for me that wasn't my experience the
man who wrote in to me he says that he
missed out on meeting people he missed
out on
women he could have been with if he
would have drank alcohol if he would
have done drugs
what you're missing out on is being with
a group of friends
who drink they do stupid stuff that
night
the next day they get together go out to
breakfast in the morning and talk about
what crazy shenanigans they got into the
night before
and that's really it i mean that's how
you build the relationship you build a
relationship
basically by drinking and then acting
childish just the other day i was
walking through a park
and i overheard a group of people doing
exactly this
they were laughing and giggling
hysterically about
how one of their friends had behaved the
night before because he was so
high you know and that's what you're
missing out on really you're missing out
on this kind of childish
stunted development into an adult that's
what you're missing out on
i don't agree that the experiences that
i had in my younger days when
i smoked weed with friends at a party i
don't really
think that those were the best times in
my life for the most part it's
just remembering sitting together in a
room watching a movie
you know like sitting together in a room
playing video games
man i remember when i was high playing
fifa with you
like dude remember when i was stone
playing mario party with you in college
like
i'm sorry those are not the most amazing
experiences in my life
and if those are the most amazing
experiences of your life the most
adventurous experiences of your life
then
you've lived a very deprived life so his
second point and his email to me
is about the alternatives he says when
you don't do drugs and you don't have
the proper mental development and
maturity
you substitute that for a different drug
in my case it was porn
and he goes on to talk about his video
game addiction and he says
i think it's better to fail in life as a
party animal alcoholic
than it is as a fat gamer porn addicted
loser
i don't think it's the case that by
default if you
don't do drugs if you don't drink
alcohol then the alternative
is to watch a lot of porn and play video
games
watching porn doesn't impair your brain
the way that smoking marijuana does it
doesn't impair your brain
the way that drinking alcohol does
watching porn
how much time does it really take out of
your day if you drink alcohol it really
can take up the
entire evening it can even affect you
the next day or a day afterwards
because many people will drink and then
have a hangover
even if you don't drink that much like i
said in my case when i did drink i never
drank in massive quantities i would
drink just a small amount
and feel sick and i would feel bad the
next day that's why
i depended so much on marijuana when i
was in college because if i wanted to be
at a party
and engage with other people who were
doing drugs or drinking alcohol
i would smoke weed because it didn't
make me feel sick but even that
i know even though the effects i was
able to ignore
them over time it does make you
a slower person it affects your mind it
affects your ambition
it affects your motivation you know when
you don't wake up
feeling alert when you don't wake up
feeling motivated
to get things done that day it becomes
habitual
and even if you aren't on the drug at
the time you know that's what you become
used to
it takes up so much of your time and
porn doesn't you know most people the
amount of time that they waste drinking
alcohol
takes up a lot more time than what
people
spend watching porn this man who wrote
into me he said with alcohol at least
he'd have the confidence to
have sex look this is a factor of
drinking alcohol this is a factor
of this culture that there's this idea
that if you
are drunk that you're more likely to get
laid many people
in their early 20s don't know how to
have sexual experiences without being
drunk without being under the influence
of something
if two people want to have sex they
should trust each other enough that
they want to have sex with each other
sober not just when they're drunk
the kind of habits that you form do
extend into your sexuality as well
your sexual experiences will inform the
rest of your life
and if you start out only engaging in
sexual activity when you're drunk or
when you're under the influence of drugs
i really think that's setting you up for
bad experiences later on i think it's
normal to feel
a little bit intimidated by sex when you
first have sexual experiences
it doesn't make sense to feel sexually
confident when you
don't have the experience you know
ideally you find somebody that you're
compatible with but
part of growing a sexual relationship
with somebody
is being really clear with each other
and working together and finding out
what you like together
this kind of relationship building this
bond forming that happens with
sexual experiences i think this is
actually really impaired by drugs this
is really impaired by
drinking alcohol in an ideal world
people wouldn't
have sex when they were drunk or on
drugs because
the kind of consent that you can give
when you're under the influence of a
drug
it's it's different honest discussion
with your partner
about sex about uh what's okay and
what's not okay
consent and not consenting you know
these lines get blurred and that's not
healthy for either party
both parties should develop the ability
to communicate with each other that you
can both
express to each other what you're
feeling when drugs and alcohol are
involved
it only makes the situation worse it
makes it harder to communicate and
people can more easily hurt the other
person or more easily hurt their
feelings as well
say things that they don't really mean
or say things that they don't
want to say it's not the way to get into
sexual relationships it's not the way to
form romantic relationships either
is to make the basis of it that you're
able to get drunk and have sex you're
able to
be high on a drug and have sex like no
you should
want to have sex with that person sober
you should be sexually attracted to the
person sober
in order for a relationship to really
form growing up with the influence of
the abrahamic religions there's a lot of
shame
having to do with the body there's a lot
to overcome if you grow up in a
religious household
and at a certain point you have to get
over that
and i don't think it's good to go
through that experience
through alcohol or through drugs i think
it also must be said that these two
things are not
mutually exclusive that the fitting into
the culture of drinking alcohol and
doing drugs
in canada or america this is not
separate
from watching porn and playing video
games
most people do all four of those things
combined
so at least you've done this sober you
were addicted to video games and you
overcame this video game addiction
and you did it sober you've had the
experience you say it's a porn addiction
you've been through that sober right you
haven't done that
while on drugs you haven't done that
while drinking alcohol
so even that i think you're a level up
than the people who have been on drugs
and have drank
while being addicted to playing video
games and while watching porn
at least you have the clarity of mind at
least you have the
ability to look back on your life and
realize that you did this sober
and you have reflected on your choices
his next point
his third point is that in some ways
it's better to have lived through that
experience of
alcoholism and experienced it fully and
come out the other side than to avoid it
completely
i just disagree again i didn't go
through alcoholism
you know a lot of people don't even say
that marijuana can be addictive
i really don't think for me i was ever
at a level of
addiction to a substance
i was never addicted to smoking
marijuana and
the level of alcohol consumption that i
had was
never at the level of alcoholism i was
never even at the level of most of my
roommates and most of my
friends and acquaintances in college so
this man who writes into me
basically his opinion is that because he
didn't have these experiences
he looks at their experiences and he
feels that they must have been through
something that made them a better person
going through this addiction going
through alcoholism
they must be a better person for
overcoming it and he says
living through any addiction makes you
stronger and the more traumatic the
addiction the stronger you become
mentally
this i really have to disagree with and
he says is the
ex-heroine user a person with stronger
willpower and character than you
absolutely no question
man this we are we are really different
from each other the way that we view
this
my ex-boyfriend when i met him he was
living with his brother
who was a heroin addict he full-on
overdose he almost died i think multiple
times he overdosed and nearly died and
had to be revived
do i think he's a stronger person for it
no i think he's a worse person for it
he's never going to have the kind of
ambition he's never
going to be successful in life like
somebody who had never
ever touched heroin this is not how i
see life you know this is somebody who
who thinks what doesn't kill you makes
you stronger this is something that's
very commonly talked about in american
society and canadian society that
going through drug addiction and coming
out of it
means that you're you have more
willpower you're a stronger person
than just avoiding it this i i just
disagree with i think it's better to
avoid it all together what i focused on
in my last video
was that although i was not an addict
like i wasn't building up the kind of
coping mechanisms to deal with stress
and anxiety to
get through difficulties in life and
take them in stride to just
be positive about some of the
difficulties that you experience on a
day-to-day basis and not
panic not worry about things to take a
positive approach to life this is what i
wasn't building
when you get through life without drugs
when you avoid it completely
you don't have to go through all this
you can focus on other things in life
and you
are better for it and i don't know in
cultures around the world how prevalent
this belief is that
what doesn't kill you makes you stronger
you know some people think that
more exposure to germs will improve your
immune system
this i disagree with i think when you're
a child
if you come down with an ear infection
there are
delays in language development that
happen that
other children do not have you are
putting your child at a disadvantage to
other children if your child has an ear
infection
and you don't give them antibiotics
versus a child who
doesn't get an ear infection and these
are caused by bacteria
that are spread between children as
we've learned this past year with
coronavirus
some people who had this virus are
forever impacted
by the virus they will live with this
their entire lives
people who have lost their sense of
taste their sense of smell
people who have to deal with fatigue
that has lasted for
months and months after recovering from
the virus
you know some diseases you have the
disease
and even though you've recovered from
the primary symptoms of the disease
you will still have some side effects
that remain for the rest of your life
and that doesn't make you a stronger
person that actually makes your body
worse you know you're you're struggling
to overcome these things
all the time that somebody who never had
the disease
doesn't have to deal with somebody who
never dealt with alcoholism
like you for example the the guy who
wrote into me
you never had to deal with alcoholism
and therefore
you don't have to overcome this on a
daily basis where
they are always distracted by their
alcoholism they're always thinking about
their next drink you've never had that
you don't know what it's like to live
that way i mean maybe you feel that way
about you know you you characterize your
watching porn and playing video games as
addictions maybe you can
remember that with with playing video
games where even when you're not playing
video games
you're still like thinking about the
video game you're still thinking like as
you fall asleep
i know i have i've had the experience
where you're dreaming about the video
game
you fall asleep thinking about the video
game you're at school and you're
thinking about
playing the video game this is the kind
of addiction mindset where you're not
able to focus
on the here and now you're not able to
focus on
what's right in front of your face
because you're thinking about the thing
that you're addicted to
some people they don't have that
experience and when you don't have the
chemical
in your mind when you don't have the
actual physical chemical presence of
alcohol or marijuana or whatever drug it
is
your mind is better able to cope with
these things so
you know porn is not a drug right uh
playing video games that is not a drug
at age see by the time i was 12 i was
actually playing in bars already in a
band i was actually in like a garage
band that played in bars at 12 years old
turning my 12th to 13th birthday on my
birthday i played in the bar so i was
actually drinking at 12 years old
already
at my friend's house his mom would buy
beer and jack daniels and [ __ ] and we
would drink it
so that led to starting marijuana which
really wasn't a big deal marijuana never
really did anything for me so i didn't
you know have any kind of issues with
that it wasn't a big deal it probably
wasn't until
i graduated high school 21 is when i hit
gear i decided to hit gear i
blew up and i started to be a bouncer in
the nightclub so that was where
everything kind of really started there
i would take a couple pills
you know whatever the case would be
drink a few beers and it kind of you
know progress from there a little bit
and it rather never got out of control
until i started new bane a friend of
mine gave me a shot of nubain which is a
opiate based morphine like um drug that
they give to pregnant women
so i figured you know everybody was like
well if you give it to pregnant women
it's safe for us to take
little do we know that it hooks you in
like the first couple of days and
basically you'll go through withdrawals
the new bane led to more vicodin which
is more expensive which led to oxycontin
which was something new at the time
the oxycotin and vicodin new being
completely dried up very quickly because
there wasn't that was kind of like a
specialty thing that bodybuilders were
using
went on to heroin eventually it went
from pills to heroin now pills are the
gateway to heroin there's no doubt about
it
so this guy who wrote into me saying by
complete avoidance
unless you have the proper mental
framework social support
which no 18 to 25 year old does
you are definitely gonna fail so choose
a good drug and i would say
alcohol is the best i just disagree
i think it's possible to be successful
in life
without drinking alcohol i think it
requires a real cultural change
that this isn't the assumed path this
isn't the assumed trajectory
that if you don't do drugs if you don't
socialize in this way
then you'll fail because people can fail
anyway even though they do socialize
this way even though they do drink
alcohol even though they do do drugs and
it's not because of the fact that they
didn't drink enough alcohol or they
didn't party enough
you know it's never too late to start
drinking alcohol
it's never too late to start doing drugs
even though you've
written to me saying this i don't know
if you really believe it
and if you did i don't think you are
going to start drinking alcohol now
at age 25 and i really hope you don't
because you are at such an advantage
compared to so many people in life when
you don't have the lived experience
it's easy to look at somebody else's
life
and think that they had a better life
than you or think that they went through
things and
became a better person for it but in
this case
with what he's talking about that by
being sober he missed out on life
in time i hope he'll see that he's
better off
having stayed sober you can really
change your life
you can improve yourself and it's always
easier to
change your life and improve yourself
and build healthier habits when you
aren't addicted to a drug
even if nobody else around you seems to
think positively of your sobriety
even if you yourself at this point in
your life
don't think positively of your sobriety
eventually
i really think you'll be able to look
back and say i'm really glad
i didn't drink alcohol i'm really glad i
didn't do drugs
you talk about how because you didn't
drink alcohol you had more clarity of
mind and that you were able to
examine your life some people don't
some people haven't had that and they
will then be at a significant
disadvantage as they move ahead in life
as they try to find their meaning in
life
part of this man's message to me is that
for people who
have these very serious addictions and
come out from the other side of it
they have shown that they have very
strong character they have willpower
and they overcame their addictions they
overcame their struggles in life
and that makes them a stronger person
what about the people that
never overcome their addictions what
about the people who die
from drinking alcohol what about the
people who die from
heroin overdosing on serious drugs
you know i used to say this about
marijuana i used to think that marijuana
should be legal and alcohol should be
illegal because nobody's died from
marijuana
people don't overdose on marijuana and
die but
often enough people drink alcohol and
die
from drinking alcohol or they drive a
car
drive drunk kill other people really
hurt other people
video games don't kill people
porn doesn't kill people watching porn
does it make the world a better place no
does playing video games make the world
a better place
no but it doesn't kill you
it's really a lot easier to get past
addictions
that aren't chemically changing your
mind that aren't causing brain damage
it's a lot harder to get over drug
addiction when it
physically alters your brain you will
have that brain damage permanently
i really have to say i disagree with you
there are not pros and cons to
serious drug addictions i think it's
just cons
that come from it with these other forms
of addictive behavior
like playing video games and watching
porn
you aren't going to kill people and in
some ways you might actually
learn something from the process but
what you can learn
from doing drugs and drinking alcohol
it's not worth it
it's not worth it for anybody
you